I had a really rough start to the work this week. I had a few initial ideas I wanted to work with, but nothing was going right. I think I did the first few steps over and over again on three seperate projects before settling on a fourth and final one. Only having time to work on schoolwork on Sundays and Mondays, I was feeling very disheartened with the lack of progress despite hours of work. Eventually I landed on the diaries of Thomas Ryan, and when I started working on them things were going more smoothly and my confidence began to return again. However, I'm still disappointed I abandoned my earlier attempts.

That being said, once things started working I began to find my footing, and working through things went really smoothly. I was surprised at how confident I was with going back to past weeks and altering the instructions to suit my own efforts. It's one thing to follow step-by-step instructions and another to take the general concepts and figure out the rest yourself. Everything I did worked first time, or at worst second time, and the errors I encountered were easily spotted and easily rectified. I did wonder about my retention of previous weeks' work, but this really showed me how much of it has stuck with me.

Once I had all of my data in image and text format, I started exploring it. As I said in my notes a lot of it was to be expected. These were the personal diaries of Thomas Ryan, most of the information was personal and even uninspiring. 'I went here, I saw this, I met her,' etc. The words that came up in Voyant were verbs and nouns. However, beneath those obvious results I found the information that I ended up settling on.

I grew up in an environment of very steady weather, but since moving to Canada I've become acutely aware of seasonal changes. Having the diary spread out over a timeline, looking at trends over time made me keep the thought of weather in the back of my mind. When I noticed certain terms decreasing in usage as time spread into the warmer months, I wondered if there was any correlation. I gathered a number of terms and put them into AntConc for a closer look. Results were...varied, but it was a lead nonetheless, and I think that was the goal here.

I found some evidence that backed my assumption and some that didn't, and even discovered other terms (mainly 'car') that also cropped up in the exploration. I felt like these could be used to research the impact of weather on diaries. Mood, travel, activities, work, and a variety of avenues of life would all be impacted by changes in weather, so what sort of conclusions could be drawn here? This was what I focused my 'final project' on. I made a webpage (and I was surprised at how easily I did it, too!) and laid out my progress and the resulting hypothetical research options, and I was quite pleased with the product. 

Reading through Moravec's felt most useful to me when I was working on my own website. I recall an earlier reading that I struggled with, where I noted my frustrations in trying to parse the language used and how to follow the steps taken. Maybe it's a result of being a more competent digital historian at the end of all this, but I found Moravec's work really easy to follow, and it struck a chord with what we've been doing these past six weeks. It gave me a sort of guideline to follow, and particularly reinvigorated/helped me after I felt defeated with my early frustrations. Overall, despite the monumental hiccups, I'm really happy with how my work went this week.
